so now let's look at how a d latch
a d latch works so here you can see here
the d latch can be considered as two
inverters back to back
connected together with a switch here
so the switch is on when the clock is
one
so when the switch is on the input here
can travel through the first inverter
and go to the second inverter
right when the switch is off
this occurs when clock is equal to zero
so the feedback loop
is now activated so whatever
input was installed in
[Music]
the latch here would continue
on right so it doesn't matter what the
input here is because this switch is
open
so so now the timing diagram
um the d latch has to obey
the setup and hold times before the data
can come
out properly so in order to guarantee
adequate time
to get the correct data at the first
inverter input
before the switch opens the data must be
given
a specific time and this is known as t
setup
before the clock goes low again
so here the setup time
is defined here as the data
this is the setup time when the data
needs to be stabilized and
the data in order for the data to come
out so that
for the setup time the data has to be
present
here before the clock for a certain
period of time
so the setup time is before
and the whole time is how long you must
hold the data
so that the data comes out as an invalid
output
at q alright
so setup is before
the clock and whole time is
after the clock if you violate
the settlement whole time this can cause
metastable problems
or chaotic output
okay so this is the diagram so here
as you can see here the setup time here
is defined at the time the data needs to
be on
or high before the clock turns high
and the whole time is the data still
needs to be on
after the clock has reached the high
value
so the time which the time defined
is the time from the clock
to the output so this is the
propagational delay
so the time is known at the time from
the clock to
q so here for this one the d is low
so this is the setup time
and this is the whole time and
this is the d clock
to q so you can define the clock to q
into two which where the propagational
time to go from
high to low or from low
to high depending on the input okay so
now we have
uh another another static latch this is
the set
they are various types of various types
of d latch circuit
and usually we can use a single phase
clock
right so the first
diagram shows the use of
a weak inventor with a the weak inventor
is defined as an
inverter with a low w over l
to allow the removal of feedback loop
x gate but retain this
static latch function okay
so here
you have the transmission gate this is
the transmission gate
and when the clock is high the d passes
through
and this one when clock is high the
clock bar is zero so the
the output here will be the input will
be transmitted to the output here
and the inverter will invert the output
and this can help to retain the signal
inside the loop
okay so in circuit b you have two of
them connected back to back
and the difference here is that
you have an inverter so in between
so this is the input zero
and this will become one and this is one
and if you want the actual output you
have to put it
into an inverter so then you will get
d equals to the q will be equals to
the d okay
so the implementation here as you can
see here
this implementation is this is the
inverter
this inverter is a bit special as they
added
the clock node so the clock
node here is an added
transistor both at the pmos and the nmos
so if what does the
clock do so if the clock is high
so let's say d is one this is one so
this is one
and the clock is high so the clock is
high this node will be pulled down to
zero okay
and the reverse when
when d is zero and
the clock
is zero so the clock is
clock is high and clock bar will be zero
so this one will be on
and this is on
so the output will be pulled up
so the output will be one okay
so this it can be used to implement
the active state latch this
kind of schematic
all right so you can avoid clock skew
you may have clock skew here because you
have clock at
one gate and then another clock at their
second gate
so this clock skew problem can be solved
by using by using buffering in clock
nets
so you use inverter buffer to generate
the negative clock
and transmission gain gate buffers
for true clock so inverter buffer is
just connecting an inverter
and transmission gate buffer means that
you connect it to a
transmission key this is the
transmission gate
so con construction of a d register
as you can see the d register is
actually
edge triggered
so h3 get register actually consists of
2d latch connected back to back
right and the register timing so let's
see here
when you have the edge triggered
register
you can cause it to
be level triggered so the level
triggered mean that
it will work either at the positive edge
of the clock or the negative
edge in this case this strand this
register is positive h
so look let's look at the output here so
the d the q will reflect what is the d
whenever the clock is high it goes
too high and at the positive edge so
it will evaluate the function so this it
will evaluate d
and will come it out at q and at the
next positive h
right of the clock the
queue will follow the d
so the data must be valid um based on
the setup and hold time just like in
your
lectures
okay you can also have a negative edge
uh
the flip-flop and this
this negative edge circuit the master
latch receive the input d
until the clock falls from high to low
at which point
it will set the data in the master ledge
and send it to the
output queue right the same way this has
two
blocks this is the master
and this is the slave it's
two blocks
the flip flop connected back to back
and this is negative h triggered and as
you can see here
is negative a triggered because over
here
this one is activated by
clock and clock bar
i should schmidt trigger circuit the
schmidt trigger circuit
it has a characteristic as an inverter
but it has different switching threshold
so if an inverter you only have one line
and this will go up and down
at the same line for schmidt trigger it
occurs like a hysteresis
so you can see here it has one
one curve
when it goes from high to low and one
another curve when it goes from low to
high
this can be done by using the inverter
this is the inverter and connecting two
extra transistors here and the
transistor at the output
so
this uh schmidt trigger circuit has a
hysteresis effect and if v
in is increasing
it has a high threshold voltage and if v
in is decreasing
then it has a low threshold voltage
so this is the output of the circuit so
when you increase the in
right you will follow this and when you
decrease
be in 2b threshold you it will follow
another
curve
clocking strategies
so clogging strategies uh blsi system
you
need universally make use of storage
elements and state
with clocks to control the sequencing so
this
block diagram shows the block diagram of
finite state machine
right where the in the output is
dependent on the input
and also depending on the state
so in uh today's microprocessor
a lot of them are known as
are broken down into a pipeline system
whereas
where the registers are contacted with
the logic
one block and it can be broken down into
several blocks and this is pipeline
system
and the idea is breaking into several
blocks is that
each
block can be optimized
but instead of putting it as a whole big
block
pipelining pipelining system typically
has registers separated by
communication and logic and the minimum
cycle
time is obtained by
by adding dq which is the clock to q
output delay plus td which is the worst
case delay and ts is the setup time
delay
of register b so
pipeline system comes from the pipeline
in manufacturing
so for example if you want to make a car
right you first have to have the body
and then you have the
complete system so instead of having
one block directly to the car you can
break it up into
three steps when you break it up into
three steps
you can do parallel processing so for
example this is
line one and you have another line two
and the line two can
do parallel processing at the same time
okay so um so this
all right so in this case it will take
instead of taking
instead of taking so each one this is
let's say one
one block is one second so to complete
three cars
complete three cars to complete one car
to complete one car it takes three
seconds
so by logic it should take three
for three cars it should take three
times three
which is nine seconds but by using
pipelining
in order to um to complete three cars
right you will only need one two three
and this one is another step because it
will complete
and this is another two steps so one two
three four
using pipelining
three cars can be finished in five
seconds so you have a power
or a time saving
method so the same way
for the pipeline system
here we will break the
combinational logic into several
different blocks or chains
so this can allow us
to increase the frequency in the super
pipeline or superscalar machine
so we the idea is that you split long
combination logic blocks
into smaller combination blocks which
can run in
parallel so sometimes this offer
improves the overall frequency of the
profi processor but sometimes it adds
some delay penalty
okay however in a pipeline because there
are many
there are clocks running the same clock
has to run at different registers
so sometimes there will be clocks q
clock skew means that
the clock doesn't arrive at the same
time
so maybe this is the clock at m1
there will be another clock it will try
to follow the same clock
here this is the clock at m2
so there will be still the slide delay
here
so this delay names as clock skew
so clock tree distribution i have done
this so i will skip this part
so let's look at the typical layout for
the latch circuit
as you can see there are many ways of
doing the layout
so here we use this kind of gate
to the inverter with an added transistor
and this will make real a compact layout
you can also use transmission gate
here both the the
input and the storage
is using transmission gate
and the last one is
the conventional delay circuit you can
shrink it even more
and make it less complicated